The aim of this project is to show and compare the ability of encoder-decoder models (VGG & LSTM) trained on [flickr 8k dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adityajn105/flickr8k/data) and a LLM model (Blip). The former combines a convolutional neural network (here we used VGG16) for image feature extraction (encoder) with a recurrent neural network (we used LSTM) for text generation (decoder) and thus it is a combination of two different architectures tailored for different tasks and are integrated into a joint architecture. On the other hand, LLMs are based on the Transformer architecture, which relies on self-attention mechanisms to capture long-range dependencies in the input sequence. LLMs are typically pre-trained on large corpora of text data using unsupervised learning objectives like language modeling or masked language modeling. This pre-training process allows the model to learn rich representations of language that can then be fine-tuned on specific downstream tasks. Specifically, the Blip model that we used in this app was proposed in the [BLIP paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.12086) by Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Caiming Xiong, Steven Hoi in order to improve the performance of already excisting VLP (Vision-Language Pre-training) models.

In this project, as we expected, the performance of VGG &LSTM model is not as good as the transformer model, although it is promising. To make it easy to compare the result of these two architectures, we provided a streamlit- app that can be used after cloning the repository by this terminal command:

``` streamlit run main.py```

This reppsitory contians an images folder that contians few images named like 1.jpg, 2.jpg, etc., for practice. Users can replace their own images with similar form of naming, between 1-10.
It also includes a tools folder which contians all trained models and their dependency. Note that, due to GitHub limit for large sizes, we could not push the BLIP model and it processor as well as the VGG model. In this regard, we provided a Jupyter notebook file `download_tools.ipynb`. Before running the main.py file, you have to run cells in this notebook.
